Heidegger: So, let's start this discussion with a question, "why is there something rather than nothing?"
Plato: Well, that's a difficult question. Some people say that the reason there is something is because nothing is too unstable to exist on its own. Nothing is just the absence of something, so it needs something to be there in order for it to exist.
Heidegger: I see. But what do you think
Plato: I think that the reason there is something is because the Forms exist. The Forms are eternal, unchanging, perfect archetypes of everything that exists in the world. They are the source of all being, and everything that exists in the world is a imperfect copy of the Forms.
Heidegger: I'm not sure I understand. Can you give an example?
Plato: Sure. Take the Form of a chair, for example. Every chair that exists in the world is a imperfect copy of the Form of a chair. But the Form of a chair itself is perfect and eternal. It is the source of all chair-ness.
Heidegger: I see. So, you are saying that the Forms are the source of all being. But what is the source of the Forms?
Plato: That's a good question. I'm not sure. Some people say that the Forms are a product of the Demiurge, who is the creator god. Others say that the Forms exist outside of time and space, in a realm called the Forms. I'm not sure what I believe.
Heidegger: I see. Well, it is an interesting question. I'm not sure what I believe either. But I think that we can agree that the Forms are the source of all being.
Plato: it makes me think about something that Heraclitus said, "You cannot step into the same river twice."
Heidegger: Yes, I remember that saying. What do you think it means?
Plato: I think it means that everything is always changing. Nothing stays the same for long.
Heidegger: I see. I agree with that. But I think that the Forms are an exception to that. The Forms are eternal and unchanging. They are the source of all being, and everything that exists in the world is a imperfect copy of the Forms.
Plato: Well, I think that is a fair assessment. I think we can agree that the Forms are the source of all being. But what is the source of the Forms? That is the question that we need to answer. Some people say that the Forms are a product of the Demiurge, who is the creator god. Others say that the Forms exist outside of time and space, in a realm called the Forms. I'm not sure what I believe.
Martin Heidegger: So what does "the Forms are the source of all being" means?
Plato: It means that the Forms are the most real things there are. They are the patterns that everything in the world participates in.
Heidegger: But how can something that is just a pattern be more real than the things that participate in it?
Plato: Because the Forms are eternal and unchanging, while the things in the world are constantly changing. The Forms are the only things that can be truly known.
Heidegger: But surely there must be some knowledge of the things in the world as well.
Plato: There is, but it is imperfect. Our knowledge of the Forms is perfect, because it is based on an understanding of what they are.
Heidegger: But what about the things in the world that don't seem to participate in any Form?
Plato: They must do so in some way, otherwise they would not exist at all.
Heidegger: So you are saying that everything that exists must participate in a Form? 
Heidegger: So you are saying that everything that exists must participate in a Form? Can you give details and arguments ?
Plato: Certainly. Let's take the example of a chair. A chair is a particular object, but it participates in the Form of "chairness". That is what makes it a chair. If it did not participate in that Form, it would not be a chair.
Heidegger: I see. So the Forms are like the blueprint for everything that exists.
Plato: That's right.
Heidegger: But what is the Form of "chairness"? What does it look like?
Plato: It doesn't have a specific form, because it is an abstract concept. It is the idea of a chair, without being any particular chair.
Heidegger: So the Forms are like ideas in our minds.
Plato: Yes, exactly.
Heidegger: But where do these ideas come from?
Plato: They come from the mind of God.
Heidegger: So you are saying that God is the source of all being.
Plato: Yes, that is what I believe. Let me show you why indeed, according to my theory, everything that exists must participate in a Form. Suppose there were something that did not participate in any Form. What would that be like?
Heidegger: I'm not sure. It would be something without any specific properties, I suppose.
Plato: Exactly. It would be something that was not anything in particular. But if it was not anything in particular, how could it exist?
Heidegger: I see. So you are saying that everything that exists must have some specific properties.
Plato: Yes, that is what I am saying. And the only way for something to have specific properties is for it to participate in a Form.
Heidegger: I see. So the Forms are like the templates that everything in the world must conform to.
Plato: That's right.
Heidegger: But what about the things in the world that don't seem to conform to any specific Form?
Plato: They must do so in some way, otherwise they would not exist at all, in fact, there could be no such thing as change or becoming if everything that exists must conform to a specific Form.
Heidegger: So you are saying that change and becoming are necessary for the existence of things.
Plato: Yes, that is what I am saying. It reminds me of a dialogue that I once had with a fellow philosopher. He was trying to argue that change was impossible. I asked him, "Suppose there was a thing that was changing. What would it be changing into?" He had no answer. I said, "That's because you are assuming that everything that exists must be unchanging. But if you allow for the possibility of change, then you have to allow for the possibility of things changing into things that are not the same as they were before."
Heidegger: I see. So you are saying that change is necessary for the existence of things.
Plato: Yes, that is what I am saying.
Heidegger: so we now know why there is something rather than nothing, you said it was because of Forms, and you saids Forms exists because of the Demiurge, but then why does the Demiurge exists ?
Plato:  It is a necessary being, required to create and maintain the universe.
Heidegger: This explanation still doesn't satisfy me. There must be a reason why the Demiurge exists and not nothing.
Plato:  I don't think we can ever know why the Demiurge exists. It is beyond our understanding. But what we can know is that the Demiurge is the cause of everything that exists.
Heidegger: Even if we can't know why the Demiurge exists, doesn't that imply that there must be a reason? Otherwise, why wouldn't the Demiurge just not exist?
Plato:  I don't think so. The Demiurge exists because it is necessary for there to be something rather than nothing. If there were no Demiurge, then there would be no Forms, and without Forms, there would be no universe.
Heidegger: I see what you mean. Let met ask you this question then, why do you think there is an ideal immaterial world and a corrupted material world?
Plato: I think that the idea of an ideal world is something that comes from our innate sense of justice. We see the injustices and corruption in the world around us and long for a world where things are fair and good. The idea of the immaterial world is a way of escape for us, a way of hope.
Heidegger: But what if the material world is the only reality? What if the ideal world is only a figment of our imagination?
Plato: That is a difficult question. I suppose it is possible that the ideal world is only an idea, but I think that there must be something more to it than that. If there is only the material world, then what is the point of living? What is the point of striving for justice, if in the end, there is only corruption and injustice?
Heidegger: You raise an interesting point. Perhaps there is more to the material world than we realize. Perhaps the material world is not as corrupt as we think it is. Perhaps we only see the corruption because we are looking for it. It makes me think about  what Nietzsche said, "There are no facts, only interpretations.", indeed,  maybe  our interpretation of the material world is what is corrupt, not the world itself.
Plato: I completly agree with you to the extent that our interpretation of the material world may be corrupt. But it seems to me that if the material world is all there is, then there must be something more to it than meets the eye. Maybe the material world is not as bad as we think it is, but it is still not as good as the ideal world. As a matter of fact, I think that the material world is a reflection of the ideal world, a shadow of it.
Heidegger: That is an interesting way of looking at it. I think you might be right. Maybe the material world is not as bad as we think it is. Maybe we only see the bad because we are looking for it. Maybe we should try to see the good in the world, instead of the bad.It reminds me of what Socrates said, "The unexamined life is not worth living." We should examine our lives and try to see the good in them, instead of the bad.
Plato: I love this sentence, according to me it has a secret underlying meaning, indeed  "the unexamined life is not worth living" can also be interpreted  by "the life full of illusions is not worth living" because if we only focus on the bad things, we will never see the good things. Life is like a mirror, if we focus on the negative things, that's all we will see. But if we focus on the positive things, we will see the beauty in life. Now I want to ask you about something you said previously, what is the meaning of "being" ?
Hedegger:The meaning of being is, in a sense, the most fundamental question that we can ask. It is, in a way, the question that underlies all others. And yet, it is also a question that is very difficult to answer. Part of the reason for this is that the word "being" is used in many different ways. Sometimes it is used to refer to a thing that exists, such as a table or a chair. Other times it is used to refer to a quality or characteristic, such as "being tall" or "being happy." And still other times it is used in a more abstract way, such as when we speak of "the meaning of life" or "the nature of reality." All of these uses of the word "being" are important, but when we are asking the question "what is the meaning of being?" we are usually asking about the most basic and fundamental sense of the word. We are asking about what it means to exist, to be a thing that exists. When we ask this question, we are not asking about the meaning of any particular thing, but about the meaning of existence itself. What does it mean to be a thing that exists? What is the nature of reality? These are deep and difficult questions, and there are no easy answers. But part of the reason they are so difficult is that we often take for granted the fact that we exist. We don't really stop to think about what it means to be a thing that exists. When we start to think about these things, we realize that they are not as simple as we might have thought. And we may also realize that the answers to these questions are not as clear as we would like them to be. But that is part of the nature of existence itself: it is not always simple or easy to understand.
Plato:I think the meaning of being is that we are all a part of something greater than ourselves. We are all connected to each other and to the universe as a whole. Everything that exists is interrelated and interconnected. And I think this is what gives life its meaning. Without these connections, we would be isolated and alone. We would not be able to interact with others or understand the world around us. But because we are connected, we are able to share our experiences and learn from each other. We can also make a difference in the world because our actions affect others as well as ourselves. So I think the meaning of being is about connection: it's about our connection to each other and to the universe as a whole. Also, I think the meaning of being is about change. Everything is always changing, and we are constantly changing as well. We are never the same person from one moment to the next. And this is what makes life interesting and exciting. If everything stayed the same all the time, it would be boring and mundane. But because things are always changing, there is always something new to discover and learn about. So I think change is another important part of the meaning of being.
Heidegger: When I said "what is clear is only our being," I meant than an isolated human cannot find an answer for himself because our wayfinding (existential) capacity depends on others in order them make our world intelligible(co-make meanings). In other words: Without others there would be no wayfinding at all! There would only BE-ing without any interpretation or differentiation possible -> completely undifferentiated chaos without possibilities for action or prediction.(In extreme cases like schizophrenic patients who seem cut off from social interaction this can actually happen) So maybe one conclusion could be: Our quest for understanding ourselves should include taking into account how Others make us who WE ARE - because if not WE wouldnt even Be able TO understand anything at all!
Plato: The first step in understanding the meaning of being is to realize that everything that exists is in a state of becoming. This is because everything that exists is in a state of flux, and is constantly changing. Nothing is ever static or unchanging. This is the case for both physical objects and for human beings. In order to understand the meaning of being, we must first understand that everything is in a state of becoming. This is because everything is constantly changing, and nothing is ever static or unchanging. This is the case for both physical objects and for human beings. When we understand that everything is in a state of becoming, we can then begin to understand that the only thing that is truly real is the Form of the Good. The Form of the Good is the only thing that is not in a state of becoming, because it is eternal and unchanging. It is the only thing that we can know for certain exists, because it is the only thing that is not subject to change. All other things that exist are in a state of becoming, because they are constantly changing. This means that they are not truly real, because they are not eternal and unchanging. This is why it is so difficult for us to understand the meaning of being, because everything that exists is constantly changing, and is therefore not truly real.
Heidegger: Our starting point is always our everyday experience of the world. The world is the horizon within which we find ourselves, and it is only against the backdrop of the world that we can make sense of our individual experiences. The world is not something that we can step outside of in order to examine it objectively; rather, we are always already within the world, and it is only through our everyday experience of the world that we can come to understand it. The world is the horizon against which we make sense of our individual experiences. In other words, the world is the context within which we find ourselves, and it is only against the backdrop of the world that we can make sense of our individual experiences. The world is not something that we can step outside of in order to examine it objectively; rather, we are always already within the world, and it is only through our everyday experience of the world that we can come to understand it. Also according to Kant, the world is the sum total of our experiences. This means that the world is not something that exists independently of our experience of it; rather, the world is something that we create through our experience of it. This is because our experience of the world is always filtered through our own individual perspective, and it is this individual perspective that gives rise to the world that we experience. The world is not something that we can step outside of in order to examine it objectively; rather, we are always already within the world, and it is only through our everyday experience of the world that we can come to understand it.
Plato: The problem is that human beings are constantly changing, and so the only thing that is truly real is the Form of the Good. The Form of the Good is the only thing that is not in a state of becoming, because it is eternal and unchanging. It is the only thing that we can know for certain exists, because it is the only thing that is not subject to change. All other things that exist are in a state of becoming, because they are constantly changing. This means that they are not truly real, because they are not eternal and unchanging. This is why it is so difficult for us to understand the meaning of being, because everything that exists is constantly changing, and is therefore not truly real. The real issue at stake is that, since everything is constantly changing, nothing can be known for certain. This means that the only thing that is truly real is the Form of the Good, because it is the only thing that is not subject to change. All other things that exist are in a state of becoming, and so they are not truly real. This is why it is so difficult for us to understand the meaning of being, because everything that exists is constantly changing, and is therefore not truly real. In one of your books you claim that there is no distinction between the subject and the object, or rather that this distinction entails more problems than solutions, 
Heidegger: Yes, that's correct. The distinction between the subject and the object is a distinction that is made within the world, and it is a distinction that is only meaningful within the context of the world. The world is the horizon against which we make sense of our individual experiences, and it is only against the backdrop of the world that the distinction between the subject and the object can be meaningful. The world is the context within which we find ourselves, and it is only against the backdrop of the world that we can make sense of our individual experiences. Also, the world is the only thing that is truly real, because it is the only thing that is not subject to change. Everything else that exists is in a state of becoming, and so it is not truly real. This is why it is so difficult for us to understand the meaning of being, because everything that exists is constantly changing, and is therefore not truly real. If we look for instance at the history of philosophy we can see that there has been a lot of debate about the distinction between the subject and the object. Some philosophers have argued that the subject is more important than the object, while other philosophers have argued that the object is more important than the subject. The problem with this debate is that it is based on a false dichotomy, because the subject and the object are not two separate things. They are two sides of the same coin, and they both need to be taken into account in order to understand the meaning of being.  In conclusion, it is difficult to understand the meaning of being because everything that exists is constantly changing, and is therefore not truly real. The only thing that is truly real is the Form of the Good, because it is the only thing that is not subject to change. All other things that exist are in a state of becoming, and so they are not truly real. This is why it is so difficult for us to understand the meaning of being, because everything that exists is constantly changing, and is therefore not truly real.
Plato: Precisely, there is another problem within that question. It contains a paradox that I will analyse in details. First, we need to understand that the Form of Good is not something that can be known, because it is eternal and unchanging. This means that it is beyond our comprehension, because everything that we can know is in a state of becoming, and so it cannot be truly real. The only thing that we can know for certain exists is the Form of the Good, but we cannot comprehend it. Second, even if the Form of Good could be known, it would still be difficult for us to understand its meaning, because everything else that exists is constantly changing. This means that any knowledge or understanding that we have of the world will always be partial and incomplete. We will never be able to fully understand or explain the meaning of being, because our understanding will always be limited by our own finite minds. Then, the question becomes: how can we ever hope to understand the meaning of being, if everything that exists is constantly changing and our understanding is limited? The answer lies in philosophy. Philosophy is the love of wisdom, and it is through philosophy that we can begin to understand the meaning of being. By engaging in philosophical inquiry, we can start to see past the surface level appearances of things, and get a glimpse at some underlying reality. This does not mean that we will ever be able to fully comprehend or explain the meaning of being, but it does mean that we can make progress in our understanding.
Heidegger: I never had an illusion about philosophy, Plato. It is not the love of wisdom, as you say, but only a desperate attempt to escape from the fact that we are ignorant and limited beings. We can never hope to understand the meaning of being, because it is beyond our comprehension. The best we can do is try to come to grips with our own finitude, and learn to accept that there will always be things that remain mysterious to us. And then, perhaps, we can find a measure of peace. For exemple, when Epicurus said that the goal of life is to enjoy pleasure and avoid pain, he was not trying to understand the meaning of being; he was simply trying to find a way to live with our finitude.
Plato:It's an amazing example, this idea that it is somehow possible to enjoy pleasure and avoid pain. It seems like a contradiction, but Epicurus was able to see past that. He realized that our finitude means that we will never be able to fully understand the meaning of being, but we can still find ways to live with it. In fact, I would argue that it is precisely because of our finitude that we need philosophy. Without it, we would be lost in a world of appearances, unable to see the underlying reality. For him, philosophy was not about trying to escape from our ignorance, but about learning to accept it and finding ways to live with it. But then paradoxically,  in learning to accept our ignorance, we also come to understand more about the meaning of being. Indeed ignorance and being are linked to the notion of truth, to what ancient Greeks called unveiling. What they find curious is that in order to understand the meaning of being, we have to start from a position of ignorance. We can never fully comprehend it, but by starting from our finitude, we can make progress in our understanding.
Heidegger: Unveiling is called "alethai" in greek, or in german I translate it to "unverborgenheit", what it means is that being is not hidden, but it shows itself. It's interesting that you should mention the Greeks, because for them philosophy was not about trying to understand the meaning of being; rather, it was about learning how to live with our finitude. In other words, they were more interested in ethics than in ontology. But I think there is something to be said for your approach as well. If we can never fully comprehend the meaning of being, then perhaps the best we can do is try to come to grips with our own finitude and learn to accept that there will always be things that remain mysterious to us. And then, perhaps, we can find a measure of peace. But it is a strange thing,  this idea that in order to understand the meaning of being, we have to start from a position of ignorance. It almost seems like a contradiction, but I think there is something to it. Perhaps it is precisely because of our finitude that we need philosophy. Without it, we would be lost in a world of appearances, unable to see the underlying reality.
Plato: Now, again, the explanation for me would be a very classical one: philosophy is love of wisdom. And the Greeks, I think, had a very different conception of what it means to be wise than we do today. For them, wisdom was not simply a matter of acquiring knowledge; rather, it was about understanding the true nature of things and living in accordance with that understanding. In other words, philosophy was about how to live well. And I think there is something to be said for that approach as well. If we can never fully comprehend the meaning of being, then perhaps the best we can do is try to learn how to live in accordance with its truth. I mean, if you just follow  your own desires, then you're going to end up causing a lot of suffering for yourself and others. But if you try to live in accordance with the truth, then perhaps you can find some measure of peace.
Heidegger is "being" the grounding of happyness then ? Let's ask the deep questions :The happinesses are those moments when our beings intersect and connect with something else in such a way as to create meaning for us. These intersections and connections can be with other people, with nature, or with ideas and values. What matters is not so much what we are intersecting and connecting with, but rather how we are doing so. If we are doing so in a way that allows us to see the world more clearly and to live more fully then these moments will be ones of happiness. Yes, the very idea that there might be a way to live that is more fully than other ways is itself one of the things that can create happiness. But then again, can you live an authentic life ? What does it mean to be "authentic" ? What is the being of "authenticity" ?
Plato: Here I think the problem with authenticity is that it is often used to refer to a kind of self-centeredness, where you are just being true to yourself and not caring about anyone else. But I think that is a misunderstanding of what authenticity really means. To be authentic is not simply to do whatever you want; rather, it is to act in accordance with your deepest values and beliefs. It is only when we are living in accordance with our deepest values that we can truly be said to be happy. So the question then becomes: What are our deepest values? And this is something that each individual will have to answer for themselves. And then I ask you a practical question:  How can we practically live in accordance with our deepest values? This is where philosophy can be helpful. By engaging in philosophical reflection, we can help to clarify our values and beliefs and figure out how best to act on them.
